SEC. 5. SPECIAL RULE FOR MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES AND FOREIGN
              SERVICE AND CIVILIAN DOD EMPLOYEES IN DETERMINING
              EXCLUSION OF GAIN FROM SALE OF PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 121 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to exclusion of gain from sale of
principal residence) is amended by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
            ``(9) Members of uniformed services and foreign service and
        civilian dod employees.--
                    ``(A) In general.--At the election of an individual
                with respect to a property, the running of the 5-year
                period described in subsection (a) with respect to such
                property shall be suspended during any period that such
                individual or such individual's spouse is serving on
                qualified official extended duty as a member of the
                uniformed services or of the Foreign Service or as a
                civilian employee of the Department of Defense.
                    ``(B) Maximum period of suspension.--The 5-year
                period described in subsection (a) shall not be
                extended more than 5 years by reason of subparagraph
                (A).
                    ``(C) Qualified official extended duty.--For
                purposes of this paragraph--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `qualified
                        official extended duty' means any extended duty
                        while serving at a duty station which is at
                        least 50 miles from such property or while
                        residing under Government orders in Government
                        quarters.
                            ``(ii) Uniformed services.--The term
                        `uniformed services' has the meaning given such
                        term by section 101(a)(5) of title 10, United
                        States Code, as in effect on the date of the
                        enactment of this paragraph.
                            ``(iii) Foreign service of the united
                        states.--The term `member of the Foreign
                        Service' has the meaning given the term `member
                        of the Service' by paragraph (1), (2), (3),
                        (4), or (5) of section 103 of the Foreign
                        Service Act of 1980.
                            ``(iv) Extended duty.--The term `extended
                        duty' means any period of duty pursuant to a
                        call or order to such duty for a period in
                        excess of 90 days or for an indefinite period.
                    ``(D) Special rules relating to election.--
                            ``(i) Election limited to 1 property at a
                        time.--An election under subparagraph (A) with
                        respect to any property may not be made if such
                        an election is in effect with respect to any
                        other property.
                            ``(ii) Revocation of election.--An election
                        under subparagraph (A) may be revoked at any
                        time.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply
to elections made after the date of the enactment of this Act for
suspended periods under section 121(d)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (as added by this section) beginning after such date.
